---
layout: post
title:  "ICC Workshop : NPTool School, second Circular"
date:   2016-10-14 14:00
author: Adrien Matta
categories: nptool update
---

 The [registration website][registration] is now ready.
 You will also find a list of hotels close to GANIL with reduced prices for the
 workshop.
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 ICC Workshop on Detector Simulations (2016)
 
 Over the last decade, with the development of new detection systems that will
 take full advantage of the new facilities currently under construction in
 Europe, the demand for realistic simulations to prepare experiments and
 facilitate the data analysis is constantly on the rise. This led to the
 development of several simulation toolkits, more or less experiment/detector
 specific.
 Amongst the GANIL-SPIRAL2 ICC activities, the simulation working group is
 looking for solutions to facilitate exchanges between the different existing
 simulation tools and avoid work duplication. One recent outcome of this
 enterprise is that, now, most of the frameworks are compatible with detector
 geometry file in gdml format, which facilitates the exchange of detector
 geometry files from one toolkit to another, as well as the implementation of
 new detectors.
 After the presentation of the successful AGATA and SToGs simulation tool last
 year, we propose to hold a workshop on the simulation and data analysis
 framework NPTool for low-energy nuclear physics experiments. NPTool is based on
 GEANT4 and ROOT and has recently published in Journal of Physics G Nuclear and
 Particle Physics, Volume 43, Number 4. The response of a large range of
 detectors are already simulated using NPTOOL and more information can also be
 found at the project website, http://nptool.org.
 The workshop will take place at the GANIL guesthouse from the 29th of November
 (2pm) to 1st (1pm) of December 2016(to be confirmed).
 The main goal of the workshop is to present the framework, assist the
 participants in the installation (tbc) and demonstrate through tutorials how it
 can be used:
 
 *         to simulate a reaction with a realistic beam,
 
 *         to analyse real and simulated data,
 
 *         to implement new detectors and connect to a gdml geometry file,
 
 *         and to define or connect to new event generators. (tbc)
 We are looking forward to welcoming you at GANIL for this workshop.
 
The Organizers: Adrien Matta, Nicolas de Séréville, Freddy Flavigny, Marc
 Labiche

[registration]: https://pro.ganil-spiral2.eu/events/workshops/simulation-icc

